# Global Mental Health & Lifestyle Analysis (End-to-End Power BI Project)

# Description:
An analysis of mental health data from 10,000 respondents worldwide. The project's goal is to identify the link between lifestyle (sleep, diet, work) and the risk of depression. 

## 1. Data Pipeline & Preparation

### Step 1: Power BI Data Preprocessing & ETL. Names, types, values changes, table transformation.

### Step 2: Power BI Data Modeling (Star Schema). Creation of connections between the main table and new small tables.

### Step 3: Data Segmentation. Split the dataset into three main categories using data visualizations and main characteristics filters:

-	Overview. Main information about respondents: average respondent, depression risk and where they live.
-	Lifestyle & Health. Key insights about respondents’ habits and mental health: night sleep hours, screen time, alcohol usage, caffeine intake, smoking and diet quality (habits filter added). 
-	Work & Environment. Mental health and work environment correlation: work week and day length, satisfaction, work-life balance, bullying at work and treatment popularity (remote work filter added).

### 2. Main Insights & Dashboards

### Dashboard 1: Overview (1.png)
-	Focus: Average respondent’s portrait.
-	Key Metrics: Average of main respondents’ parameters, count of respondents by their countries, percentage to show risk of depression.
-	Interactive Features: Integrated Slicers for Country, Age Group, Gender, Marriage, Employment, Income and Education to allow more detailed overview of respondents depending on these characteristics.
-	Visualization: interactive map added, average respondent – generated by AI vector image according to average respondent visualization.



### Dashboard 2: Lifestyle & Health (2.png)
-	Focus: Lifestyle, habits, sleep and depression.
-	Key Metrics: Sleep duration and social media hours per day impact on happiness, caffeine consumption and sleep deprivation correlation, link between depression and night sleep hours.
-	Interactive Features: Integrated Slicers for Country, Age Group, Gender, Marriage, Employment, Income and Education to allow more detailed lifestyle and well-being tendencies. Habits slicer added to show more detailed view on alcohol usage, caffeine intake, smoking and diet quality.

### Dashboard 3: Work & Environment (3.png)
-	Focus: Work duration, satisfaction, work-life balance, bullying, mental problems and treatment.
-	Key Metrics: Main trend of workday or week length and satisfaction correlation, percentage of treatment seekers and bullying at work.
-	Interactive Features: Integrated Slicers for Country, Age Group, Gender, Marriage, Employment, Income and Education to allow more detailed lifestyle and well-being tendencies. Remote work slicer added to show more detailed view on correlation between work style and environment.

### Main Highlights:
_(Note that data chosen is highly likely generated, because results of completed analysis are not significant, therefore conclusions may be statistically insignificant.)_
-	**Average Respondent Profile:** A single female millennial living in USA who has bachelor’s degree, middle income, working full-time about 6 hours a day.
-	**Depression Risk:** 91% of respondents fall into the "Middle to High" risk category. 
-	**The Sleep Paradox:** Surprisingly, no significant correlation was found between sleep duration and depression in this specific dataset. 
-	**Workplace Environment:** 92.36% of employees who experienced bullying also reported mental health challenges. 

## 3. Technical Stack
- Data Cleaning: Power BI (Power Query Editor).
-	Visualization: Power BI (DAX, Interactive Slicers, Data Modelling), AI generated image.
- Dataset: [Kaggle Global Mental Health & Lifestyle Survey Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/dhrubangtalukdar/global-mental-health-and-lifestyle-survey-dataset).
